[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: 2017 is a year
that is almost done.
And we are about to enter 2018.
And so I was thinking about
what I want to do in 2018
and what I am excited about.
And I thought I
would let you ask
me questions about one thing I'm
excited about in two minutes.
JAKE: Two minutes.
OK.
Go.
SURMA: The import function.
JAKE: OK.
It's a function.
SURMA: Well, technically, no.
But that's a different story.
JAKE: What?
You've already lied to me in
one of the words you said.
SURMA: I know.
JAKE: OK.
SURMA: So we have static
imports in JavaScript.
JAKE: Yes, we do, in modules.
SURMA: So we say import
blah, blah, blah from blah,
blah, blah.
And then you get a module.
And you can use it.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: Great.
But sometimes, you don't
want to do it at the start.
JAKE: Right, because right
now, all your important modules
have to download
before any of them run.
SURMA: Yeah.
Exactly.
JAKE: OK.
SURMA: And sometimes you
have something like a spinner
that you want to use.
But you don't only block
the execution of your module
on loading the spinner
which you're going
to use much later or something.
JAKE: OK.
So this idea is this
is something that you
can defer the loading of.
SURMA: Exactly.
JAKE: Hang on.
And you would load
a spinner this way.
What are you going to
display while that's loading?
SURMA: [GASPING]
JAKE: OK.
So maybe not spinners.
SURMA: Maybe not.
JAKE: OK.
But, like, deferred roots or--
SURMA: Oh, yeah, or
whatever kind of modules
you want later on.
A view that is not-- you don't
need yet and later on you
need, then you can
load it on demand.
And that's where you have now a
dynamic import little function
that works the same
inside of import,
but it's something
that you can call
in the middle of your code.
It returns a promise.
JAKE: Aha.
OK.
And then it resolves with--
what does it resolve with?
SURMA: With the module
exports and a special named
called default, which
is the default export.
JAKE: Export.
Excellent.
OK.
So this is all of those
hacks we currently use
to load JavaScript dynamically.
SURMA: Will just go away.
JAKE: (WHISPERING) They go away.
SURMA: And here's a fun fact.
It's not a function.
JAKE: Why is not a function?
SURMA: Because it's syntax.
JAKE: That's not a good reason.
That's just a word.
SURMA: No.
I actually don't know
the exact reasoning.
But I think they had it as
a syntax and not a function.
So you can't hack it.
You can't overload it and
hook your own functions.
It's supposed to be like a
security mechanism, I think.
JAKE: OK.
SURMA: But it's just an
interesting, fun fact
on the side that really
shouldn't affect you
in your daily life as
a developer at all.
JAKE: Excellent.
So can I use this in regular
JavaScript or just modules?
SURMA: Just modules
because it is a module.
JAKE: That does make sense.
SURMA: But you can just
use script type module.
And then you have a module.
And you can use dynamic imports.
JAKE: And all those
hacks just go away?
SURMA: It's going
to be a great--
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE: You're out of time.
SURMA: The last time I think
there was 40 seconds left.
[LAUGHTER]
JAKE: Transform streams?
SURMA: Transform streams is--
we have readable stream
and writable stream.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: What is it?
Transform stream?